URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/52nd-socal-journalism-awards-gala-june-27th-at-the-biltmore/
DATE: May 20, 2010
TAGS: Awards, Bryan, Cooper, crystal room, finalists, Garrels, Perry
CATEGORY: Awards, Events, Uncategorized

52nd SoCal Journalism Awards Gala June 27th at the Biltmore
-----------------------------------------------

LOS ANGELES–CNN’s Anderson Cooper, CBS2/KCAL/9 political reporter Dave Bryan and NPR foreign correspondent Anne Garrells will receive the Los Angeles Press Club’s highest honors at its awards gala, Sunday night, June 27 at the Biltmore Hotel.

This year, the 52nd Annual Southern California Journalism Awards is dedicated to the memory of Jim Perry, a “firefighter’s firefighter” and a longtime supporter of both the awards and the Los Angeles Press Club.

Hundreds of media professionals taking are taking part in the Southland’s oldest and most distinguished journalism gala in the Biltmore’s historic Crystal Room, where the Oscars were born. Winners in this all-media competition will receive their “Oscar”—a handsome plaque with the historic press club logo, a printing press dating back to Colonial America.

The presentations will be made by celebrity and media professionals.Cooper will receive the President’s Award, for his impact on the media. He was the first American TV reporter on the scene in Haiti, following the devastating earthquake in January. Since the launch of Anderson Cooper 360° in 2003, Cooper has covered nearly all of the major news events around the world, often reporting from the scene.

Bryan, a TV reporter for more than 30 years at KTTV and now at CBS2/KCAL9, will receive the Joseph M. Quinn Award for lifetime achievement.

Anne Garrels is the 2010 recipient of the Daniel Pearl Award for courage in recognition of her selflessness in pursuing difficult, often dangerous stories over the years around the world. The award will be presented by Judea Pearl, father of the late Wall Street Journal reporter killed by Pakistani extremists in 2002.

“It’s a great lineup for a great night in Southern California journalism,” says the new Press Club President Will Lewis, a public radio veteran based at KCRW-FM. “It proves the point that outstanding journalism continues despite unprecedented difficulties for all news media.”

The Club will honor quality reporting in print, radio, TV and online in Southern California for 2009. Winners have been selected from more than 500 entries by journalists in press clubs around the country. For the first time, “Best of Show” Journalist of the Year will receive a $1,000 check.