URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/sean-penn-to-present-anderson-cooper-with-press-club-top-award-for-haitian-coverage/
DATE: June 10, 2010
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Awards, Uncategorized

Sean Penn to present Anderson Cooper with Press Club Award
-----------------------------------------------

When Sean Penn presents CNN’s Anderson Cooper with the Los Angeles Press Club’s top award for his fearless coverage of the earthquake in Haiti, the actor will be taking timeout from his selfless efforts to provide relief for the island’s survivors.

Anderson Cooper was the first American TV reporter on the scene in Haiti, following the catastrophic earthquake in January.   He will be fittingly introduced by Oscar-winning actor and committed activist Sean Penn who placed himself in the midst of the devastation living in a tent among the Haitian people.  Penn has assumed responsibility as the designated manager of one of the largest camps for Port-au-Prince survivors and is the co-founder of the J/P Haitian Relief Organization (J/P HRO). J/P HRO provides long term life changing support so that the people of Haiti can be a self sustaining and thriving community. They are dedicated to providing long term support for the people of Haiti following the tragic earthquake of 2010.

Hundreds of media professionals will take part in the Southland’s oldest and most distinguished journalism gala at the Biltmore’s historic Crystal Room, where the Oscars were born some 80 plus years ago. Winners in this all-media competition will receive their “Oscar”—a handsome plaque with the historic press club logo, a printing press dating back to Colonial America.

The presentations will be made by celebrity and media professionals. Cooper will receive the President’s Award, for his impact on the media.  Since the launch of Anderson Cooper 360° in 2003, Cooper has covered nearly all of the major news events around the world, often reporting from the scene.

Other top honors at the 52nd Annual Southern California Journalism Awards Gala at the Biltmore on June 27 will the go to NPR’s Anne Garrels and CBS2/KCAL political reporter Dave Bryan.

This year, the 52nd Annual Southern California Journalism Awards is dedicated to the memory of Jim Perry, a “firefighter’s firefighter” and a longtime supporter of both the awards and the Los Angeles Press Club.

Bryan, a TV reporter for more than 30 years, first at KTTV and now at CBS2/KCAL9, will receive the Joseph M. Quinn Award for lifetime achievement, presented by “The First Lady of Anchor Women in Los Angeles,” Pat Harvey.

Anne Garrels is the 2010 recipient of the Daniel Pearl Award for courage in recognition of her selflessness in pursuing difficult, often dangerous stories over the years around the world. The award will be presented by Judea Pearl, father of the late Wall Street Journal reporter killed by Pakistani extremists in 2002.

“The caliber of our honorees and presenters like Sean Penn speaks to the importance of quality journalism in American life,” says the new Press Club President Will Lewis, a public radio veteran based at KCRW-FM. “It proves the point that outstanding journalism continues despite unprecedented difficulties for all news media.”

The Club will honor quality reporting in print, radio, TV and online in Southern California for 2009. Winners have been selected from more than 500 entries by journalists in press clubs around the country. For the first time, “Best of Show” Journalist of the Year will receive a $1,000 check.