URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/a-gala-night-to-remember/
DATE: July 23, 2010
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Awards, Uncategorized

Stars Shine at Awards Gala
-----------------------------------------------

Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sean Penn and Anderson CooperPictures from Awards Gala *** More Pictures ***  Full list of winners *** WATCH VIDEO

Gov. Arnold  Schwarzenegger and presenters Sean Penn, Wendie Malick and Stana Katic brought unprecedented celebrity flair Sunday to the Los Angeles Press  Club’s 52nd Annual Southern  California Journalism Awards, but it was the scores of local  journalists gathered at the historic Millennium Biltmore Hotel who were  the real stars.

The night’s top honorees included CNN’s Anderson Cooper, NPR’s  Anne Garrels and veteran television reporter Dave Bryan of CBS2/KCAL9.

Penn had flown in from  ongoing relief efforts in Haiti to present Cooper with the club’s  President’s Award for overall media impact.

“Journalism matters  more than ever,” Cooper told this reporter as he left the hotel’s  elegant Crystal Ballroom, due back on the Gulf Coast to continue live  coverage of the BP oil spill disaster. “In this day and age it’s  crucially important that we keep telling stories — going out there,  seeing things for ourselves and telling others about it.”

Penn praised Cooper  for trustworthiness and diligence equivalent to broadcast legends Edward  R. Murrow and Walter Cronkite — that, and “he’s more fit than either of  them.”

Garrels, who received  the Daniel Pearl Award for Courage and Integrity in Journalism from the  slain journalist’s father Judea Pearl, used the opportunity to praise  Daniel and all journalists who put themselves at risk in pursuit of  truth.

Bryan received the  Joseph M. Quinn Award for Journalistic Excellence and Distinction after a  lively introduction by venerable colleague Pat Harvey.

In the broadcast  field, KNBC’s Ana Garcia and Fred Mamoun shared Television Journalist of  the Year honors, while KCET staffers walked away with an impressive  collection of first-place awards for investigative, feature, sports,  entertainment, public affairs and documentary reporting. (Garcia also  shared the podium as a presenter alongside LA Weekly Deputy Editor of  News and Press Club Treasurer Jill Stewart.)

Pasadena’s KPPC  89.3-FM was the big story in the radio category, with six awards,  including honors for Anchor of the Year to Alex Cohen and or Radio  Journalist of the Year to Molly Peterson.

In the Online  Journalism category, Truthdig made its presence felt with several first  place awards, including for Best Website (Exclusive to the Internet,  with a budget over $10,000) as well as for Online Commentary to Chris  Hedges and for Online Sports News to Mark Heisler.

Before announcing  veteran print journalist Bill Boyarsky as Online Journalist of the Year  for his work at Truthdig, presenter Michael Linder of KABC radio joked:  “You’re probably thinking somebody under 30? A real hip techno-baby,  right? You’d be way wrong.” Fellow Truthdigger Robert Scheer was runner  up.

“It was a great event,  the best of the many press club awards I have attended, and I was  especially pleased to see Dave Bryan recognized for his achievements,”  said Boyarsky. “And of course, being named Online Journalist of the Year  was especially satisfying to me — as Pat [Harvey] said, scoring ‘one  for the way-cool dinosaurs!’ The presence of so many outstanding print,  broadcast and online participants shows the strength of L.A.-area  journalism in these difficult times.”

Helping prove  Boyarsky’s point, print categories offered diverse and extensive lists  of winners.

But the night belonged as much to anyone as L.A. Daily Journal reporter Greg Katz,  who won several awards including Reporter of the Year for papers with  circulations up to 50,000 and the night’s $1,000 Best in Show Prize. “I  wasn’t expecting any of this,” said a slightly bewildered Katz after  that final announcement.

In the upper circulation division, the Los Angeles Times took home several  honors, including Alana Semuels for Print Reporter of the Year and  Harriet Ryan for Entertainment Reporter of the Year. Designer of the  Year went to OC Weekly’s Kelly Lewis. Reporters for the LA Weekly, Long Beach  Press-Telegram, Daily News of Los Angeles and La Opinion were also winners.

Among smaller print  publications, the Los Angeles Business Journal took home four  first-place awards, and the Pasadena Weekly took home three. The L.A. Downtown News, Jewish Journal, Pasadena Star-News and The Remnant were also  represented, as was Amy Alkon (aka The Advice Goddess) for her  syndicated column.

In art categories, photographer Ted Soqui, cartoonist Steve  Greenberg (now with the Ventura County Reporter) and Jeff Gritchen of  the Long  Beach Press-Telegram took home awards, and L.A. Daily News photographer Jim  McCoy took home two.

Meanwhile, Richard Siklos of Fortune magazine was a big winner in  the magazine category, with three first-place awards for investigative,  feature and entertainment reports.

L.A. City College’s The Collegian was named Best  Student Newspaper and staffer Mars Melnicoff won for Best Writing. USC’s  Annenberg Radio News came out on top in the student category for both  Best Website and Best News Broadcast (Radio), while the Trojans’  Annenberg TV News won for Best News Broadcast (TV).

The evening began with  cocktails and a silent auction to benefit the Press Club, and  comedienne Judy Tenuta warmed up the crowd.

Schwarzenegger’s  opening remarks lavished praise on members of the press for fulfilling  their watchdog role and called for continued diligence in covering the  ongoing gubernatorial campaign to replace him.

“When I think about  the kind of information I get from you and your write-ups, it’s  extraordinary. You’re the ones who expose the problems we have in  government,” he said. “This room is full of talented people and I want  to say thank you to all of you.”

With all the talent in the room, the Governator apparently  couldn’t resist one last Hollywood promise regarding future Los Angeles  Press Club events: “I’ll be back,” he said.

Joe Piasecki

Joe Piasecki is a fellow with USC Annenberg’s Specialized  Journalism Program, freelance writer and contributing editor for the Pasadena Weekly. Contact him at  piasecki@usc.edu.