URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/the-secrets-of-publishing-panelworkshop/
DATE: August 15, 2010
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Events

The Secrets of Publishing Panel/Workshop
-----------------------------------------------

How do I break into glossy magazines that pay two  dollars a word? Why don’t literary agents call me back? Why are editors  rejecting my proposal? Come to the SECRETS OF PUBLISHING PANEL,  moderated by the author of seven books in seven years, Susan Shapiro.   TICKETS

These bi-coastal experts will answer all of your  questions, as well as teach you ten tricks to breaking in, turning no  into yes, and landing a big book deal. 

 JOINING  SUE ON THE PANEL: Los Angeles agent Betsy Amster (a former book editor); L.A. literary agent B.J.  Robbins; Counterpoint Press editor Dan Smetanka (former editor of Ballantine & Phoenix  Books); L.A.  Jewish Journal  editor Susan Freudenheim (former L.A. Times editor); Modernman.com  editor Ky Henderson (former editor of Cosmo & Maxim) and I  See Rude People author &  nationally syndicated columnist Amy Alkon.

Sue  usually charges big bucks for her courses, but this special L.A. Press Club event  is FREE! to members and only $15 to  non-members with pre-payment. ($25 at  the door, RSVP is still a must) — or join for $50 you get a full  year of membership, plus a free ticket to this event (you save $40).

WHERE  AND WHEN: Tuesday, August 17, 6 PM cocktail hour (refreshments and finger food); 7 PM program starts. –  L.A. Press Club at  Steve Allen Theater, 4773 Hollywood Blvd. (two blocks west of Vermont) in the Hollywood/Los Feliz neighborhood. Free parking in lot. 323-669-8081
 
 MORE  ABOUT SUE:Susan Shapiro,  a Manhattan journalism professor, has written for the New York Times, Washington Post, L.A. Times, Newsweek, Salon.com, Daily Beast, The Forward, Village Voice, People, More, Glamour, and Cosmopolitan. She’s co-editor ofFood  for the Souland  author of the nonfiction booksOnly as Good as Your Word,Lighting Up, Secrets of a  Fix-Up FanaticandFive  Men Who Broke My Heart, which was optioned for a  feature film. She’s sold two novelsOverexposedand Speed Shrinking. She  lives with her husband, a TV/film writer, in Greenwich Village, where she teaches her own “instant gratification takes too long” writing method at the New School, NYU and in private workshops and seminars.