URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/newsthinking-a-workshop-at-the-press-club/
DATE: August 29, 2010
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Events

NEWSTHINKING, a workshop at the press club
-----------------------------------------------

Former  L.A. Times reporter and writing coach Bob Baker takes a novel path  toward better writing when he mixes his philosophies with the late  basketball coach John Wooden’s “Pyramid of Success.” On Sept. 9 at 6 p.m.

R.S.V.P. here
The seminar calls upon participants to share their “writing values”—habits that Bob says “click into place and determine what  the inner truth of your story is, and whether you’re  taking the greatest advantage of your facts when you begin to type.”  These values, Baker says, “are  what  we admire most about the best writers: how they engage us, define the  story, and develop a musical-like rhythm– determining whether you’re an  “interesting” writer  or not.   Participants  will test themselves by exchanging “writing values” supplemented by  Bob’s descriptions of some of the best work he edited at The Times. “Coach Wooden made his game simple by breaking excellence into a dozen or so  sayings, such as “Don’t confuse activity for achievement……” and “failing to prepare is preparing to fail.”  Our  best writers, Bob says, similarly simplify our craft by beating  themselves into submission, inventing personal internal structural rules  that require them to demand  of themselves: Have I truly  assembled my most compelling material? Have I composed the story from  the reader’s point of view? Have I told the emotional and factual truth? The audience will construct its own pyramid of success.  Come with your experiences, complaints and frustrations (no editor-bashing, please) and watch them disappear.   Bob recently re-published his book on mental organization for journalists: “BOB BAKER’S ‘NEWSTHINKING: THE SECRET OF MAKING YOUR FACTS FALL INTO PLACE,” available for $19.95 at www.newsthinking.com Have a topic you’re interested in for the seminar? E-mail Bob at bbaker1140@aol.com

R.S.V.P.