URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/talk-radio-and-its-impact/
DATE: October 21, 2010
TAGS: Clear Channel, Events, John and Ken, KABC, KFI, KPCC, mid-term elections, radio, talk
CATEGORY: Events

Talk Radio and Its Impact
-----------------------------------------------

KFI’s John Kobylt, half of the John and Ken show, Talkers magazine publisher Michael Harrison and KPCC/LA Times journalist and radio host Patt Morrison will be among the participants of a high-powered panel discussing the state of talk radio in L.A. and the nation, presented by the Los Angeles Press Club, Thurs., Oct. 28, at the Steve Allen Theater—a week before the mid-term elections.  R.S.V.P.

According to Talkers magazine publisher Michael Harrison, who coined the term “talk media” and defined it years ago in preparation for this new era, “Talk media is collectively the most accurate bellwether of American public opinion in the mass media today.”

Radio veteran Bill Moran will moderate by tossing such queries as “What is the impact of Talk Radio on the mid-term elections?” and “Is a strong news department relevant or even necessary to the content of Talk Radio?”  And there are many other probing questions he will be challenging participants to answer.  Two of those being put on the firing line include top talk show program directors Robin Bertolucci of Clear Channel and KABC’s Jack Silver.

The event is free to LA Press Club members; non-members pay $20 (includes drinks and snacks).

John and Ken, a five-hour, Monday through Friday radio show on KFI, 610-AM, are one of very few local radio shows with one million listeners.

The term “talk media” includes broadcast talk radio and television, cable news/talk television, as well as the new talk media delivered via the internet, podcasting and satellite radio.

The historic Los Angeles Press Club is the only all platform journalist organization in Southern California. The club has honored and engaged some of the most intriguing figures of the 20th Century. Among them are Harry Truman, Marilyn Monroe, Muhammad Ali, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Nixon-to name but a few. The Club’s prestigious Journalism Awards Presentation has been an annual tradition for the last 52 years. This past June, among those either presenting or being honored, were Anderson Cooper, Sean Penn and Arnold Schwarzenegger.