URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/how-i-got-that-story-song-felch-and-smith-on-their-teacher-story-in-la-times/
DATE: March 14, 2011
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Events

Grading the teachers: Song, Felch and Smith on their series in LA Times
-----------------------------------------------

Please join us on March 24 at the Los Angeles Press Club to hear Los Angeles Times reporters Jason Felch, Jason Song and Doug Smith discuss “How We Got the Story” about 6,000 Los Angeles teacher test scores that created a nationwide media sensation. Moderated by press club board member Jill Stewart from LA Weekly.
 R.S.V.P.
The Times has been variously praised and slammed for its series  “Grading the Teachers,” in which it became the first newspaper ever to  publish the names of highly ineffective — as well as effective —  teachers based on multiple years of their students’ test scores. The  series was published in late 2010 after Song, Felch and Smith and the  paper’s lawyers successfully pressed the Los Angeles Unified School District to release long-secret data which turned out to be public information under California law.

After Song and Felch requested the information, LAUSD officials improperly asked the United Teachers Los Angeles union  what they should do. “Before even responding to us, they consulted the  union,” Jason Felch later explained. “They’re not supposed to make  determinations based on how a union feels about it, but strictly upon  the law.”

UTLA President A.J. Duffy denounced the Times series, angrily  calling for Angelenos to boycott the newspaper. The explosive series  quickly attracted more than 300,000 page views. Later, when a teacher  who had been shown by the Times data to be slightly ineffective  in the classroom tragically committed suicide, Duffy demanded that the  newspaper unpublish its findings.

The “Grading the Teachers” series has helped to spur a growing movement  to use student test scores as part of a new system for determining who  is an effective public school teacher and who is not.

Come and hear the riveting story of how these three journalists nailed  down their facts, published their series, and pursued follow-up stories  amidst a dramatic backdrop of anger, controversy and praise.

 Drinks, fingerfood and networking at 7 p.m.

Program at 7.30 p.m.

Free parking

Metro: Red line Sunset/Vermont