URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/meet-2011-daniel-pearl-fellows-2/
DATE: July 27, 2011
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Uncategorized

Meet 2011 Daniel Pearl Fellows
-----------------------------------------------

We are pleased to invite you to meet with our 2011 Daniel Pearl Fellows, Aatekah Mir from Pakistan and Emal Haidary from Afghanistan. They will share their experiences in America at a panel discussion moderated by Rob Eshman, Thursday, August 25, 2011, 7:30 p.m. at the Los Angeles Press Club. The reception starts at 7:00 p.m.

Established in 2003, in partnership with the Alfred Friendly Press Fellowships, the Daniel Pearl Fellows come from countries in the Middle East, North Africa and South Asia, which Danny covered as a journalist. They work for six months at major U.S. newsrooms and experience the dynamics of a free press. Each Fellow also spends one week at a Jewish publication.

We are hosting the following two journalists:

Aatekah Ahhmad Mir (30) from Pakistan, is currently working in New York at the Wall Street Journal. In Lahore, she is a senior sub-editor for The Express Tribune, a partner of the International Herald Tribune, based in Pakistan.

Emal Naweed Haidary (31) from Afghanistan, is currently working at the Los Angeles Times. In Kabul, he is a reporter for the Bokhdi News Agency and recently started working as editor for Afghan Voices, an organization that trains young Afghan journalists.



Moderator:

Rob Eshman, Editor in Chief, The Jewish Journal of Greater Los Angeles, has moderated these public discussions annually since 2004.

The event will take place at:

Steve Allen Theater
4773 Hollywood Boulevard
Los Angeles, CA 90027-5333
(Parking is available in the back of the building)

Admission is free and seating is limited. If you would like to attend, please click here for tickets. If you encounter a problem with the online registration, call us at (310) 441-1400 to reserve tickets.

Our deep gratitude to the Los Angeles Press Club for hosting this event. We look forward to seeing you there.

Best regards,

Judea and Ruth Pearl
Daniel Pearl Foundation
www.danielpearl.org