URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/hugh-m-hefner-honored-with-lifetime-achievement-award-from-los-angeles-press-club/
DATE: September 14, 2011
TAGS: Awards, entertainment, Events
CATEGORY: Awards, Events

Hugh M. Hefner honored with Lifetime Achievement Award from L.A. Press Club
-----------------------------------------------

Hugh M. Hefner, the legendary editor-in-chief and founder of Playboy Magazine, will receive a lifetime achievement award from the Los Angeles Press Club at its 4th Annual National Entertainment Journalism Awards Gala on November 17 at the historic Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles.

“Hefner’s footprint on American popular culture is huge,” says LA Press Club President Will Lewis. “For almost 60 years, Playboy has been on the leading edge in shaping positive attitudes on civil rights, gay rights—as well as human sexuality.”

Buy Tickets

Under Hefner’s guidance the magazine has championed first amendment rights for ordinary citizens as well as journalists. Since 1979, when the Hugh M. Hefner First Amendment Awards were established, more than 100 Americans have been honored for their efforts in preserving the freedoms of speech and of the press.

Among his many contributions to the arts are the legendary Playboy Jazz Festival, substantial donations to USC film programs and the rescue of the Hollywood sign (twice).

In receiving his lifetime achievement award, Mr. Hefner will give a live interview, the kind of scintillating, on-target interview pioneered by Playboy.

At the Gala, the Press Club will also hand out plaques honoring entertainment journalists across the nation who work on all media platforms. The contest is still receiving entries. Early bird deadline has been extended until September 23rd. Best of Show Journalist of the Year will receive a cash prize. New categories include best use of the social networks–Twitter and Facebook. Rules and application forms are online at http://lapressclub.org/

To sponsor the event, buy ads in the tribute book or purchase tickets please contact Executive Director Diana Ljungaeus at Diana@lapressclub.org or call 323.669.8081.