URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/8-ball-club-news-election-for-2012-board-underway/
DATE: October 23, 2011
TAGS: annual meeting, Bill Stout, board, election, KCRW, KPCC, LA Times, Larry King, Larry Mantle, Patt Morrison, Talkers magazine, Warren Olney
CATEGORY: Events

8 Ball Club News
-----------------------------------------------

ELECTION FOR 2012 BOARD UNDERWAY

8 Ball Award presented to President Truman in 1948

Thurs., Oct. 13

2012 Board Elections and LAPC Annual Meeting. Candidates for next year’s board presented arguments for their respective election.

All members in good standing are eligible to vote in the upcoming elections. (This is a good time to renew your Club membership or bring your payments up to date.)

Ballots will be in the mail this week

Candidates are:

Beth Barrett, investigative reporter;  Jane Engle, Editor, Barbara Gasser, international journalist, Martin Kasindorf, USA Today Emeritus; Robert Kovacik, NBC4 LA; Will Lewis, KCRW Emeritus; Jill Stewart, LA Weekly; Gloria Zuurveen, PACE News.

Remaining on the Board, up for reelection in Nov, 2012:

John Amato, CrooksandLiars.com; Diana Ljungaeus, international journalist; Jon Regardie, Downtown News; Martha Sarabia, La Opinion; Anna Scott, KCRW; Ruben Vives, Los Angeles Times; and Gry Winther, international journalist and documentary director.

Press Club members receiving the ballot shall vote for no more than seven of the candidates.

Tuesday, Oct. 18

Your LA Press Club was proud to co-sponsor presentation of the first Bill Stout Memorial Awards for Excellence in Broadcast Journalism. They were presented in the Mark Taper Auditorium of the Riordon Central Library. Larry Mantle and Patt Morrison,  KPCC, were honored along with KCRW’s Warren Olney.

Annenberg journalism professor Marc Coope (left) leads three honorees in panel on the state of broadcast journalism

Thursday, October 20

Your Club was proud to host Talkers magazine’s LA Regional Talk Forum, the first in a series of radio conclaves around the country.

An overflow crowd turned out at the Steve Allen Theater to hear from Larry King, Bill Handel, Stephanie Miller and dozens of other hosts, program directors and syndicators on the state of LA. Following an all-star panel on a critique of Los Angeles, his honor, the mayor, closed the all-day sessions, with a spirited list of his accomplishments, and  a touch of  Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa’s self-deprecating humor: “I’m proud to report that in the last month no adult film was shot in Los Angeles with the use of a LAFP firefighter.”

More than 150 media professionals turn out for 1st LA Regional Talkers Forum in the Steve Allen Theater at LA Press Club headquarters. 

Larry King was the keynoter. He was introduced by long-time radio personality Bill Moran. Moran told the crowd that King has a deal to come back to radio in the near future.

Talkers.com's montage of radio hosts. program directors at  LA Talkers Forum