URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/year-end-message-from-your-president/
DATE: December 14, 2011
TAGS: contributions, gift, holiday giving, membership, tax deduction
CATEGORY: Membership, Uncategorized

Year End Message From Your President
-----------------------------------------------

Audience at Press Club event, Steve Allen Theater

CONTRIBUTE TO OUR NEW MATCHING SCHOLARSHIP FUND 

Dear LA Press Club member or friend:

At the Club’s Monday, Dec. 19 Board meeting, the directors voted unanimously to establish and seed a matching fund for college scholarships.

The cost of a college education at our state universities is out of sight. Fees go up every year. Serious students need all the help they can get. We hope to encourage them to stay with journalism as a major.

We will be seeking donation from individuals, corporations and foundations.

Meanwhile, your dollars are worth twice as much–up to $10,000. 

If you believe as I do in the importance of quality journalism in a democracy—especially in this economic downturn—then you know why it’s more important than ever to support your Los Angeles Press Club. 

Our two awards programs are coming off a stellar year. We honored Richard Engel and Lesley Stahl at the 53rd LA Press Club Awards in June, along with more than 80 first place winners across all media platforms. In June, 2012, Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein will accept the President’s Award on the 40th anniversary of Watergate.

Our 4th National Entertainment Awards nearly doubled the number of entries. We  moved the Gala from our 99-seat theater to the historic Biltmore Bowl. Comedian and civil rights icon Dick Gregory flew in to laud Hugh Hefner for a Lifetime Achievement Award for his pioneer efforts in civil and gay rights, as well as advancement of First Amendment rights.

The award programs are reason enough for you to renew yourmembership and/or gift the Club with  a tax deductible, end-of-the-year contribution @ http://shop.lapressclub.info/But your press club does more.

Our frequent events at the Steve Allen Theater have been growing in attendance as we partner with allied groups like thinkLA, Talkers magazine and broadcasters such as KPFK-FM.

We are co-sponsors of Loyola Law School’s Journalism School—a summer course for journalists who cover the law.

But our small paid, part-time staff and all-volunteer board are stretched to the limit.

In 2012, the run-up to our centennial year, the Club must seek sponsorships, grants and new members. This takes extra time and money. That’s why your end of the year contribution is so necessary.

In this time of gift giving, please put your Los Angeles Press Club on your list.

Happy holidays,

Will Lewis

President

P.S. Your LA Press Club has had an outstanding year. But if we’re to grow as we approach our centennial year, we need your continued support: Your end-of-the year contribution and your membership renewal. Act by Dec. 31 and earn a tax deduction for 2011. Now you can do it all online @ http://shop.lapressclub.info/