URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/cbs2kcal9-investigative-reporter-david-goldstein-wins-quinn-award-for-lifetime-achievement/
DATE: January 24, 2012
TAGS: CBS2, KCAL9, lifetime achievement, Quinn Award
CATEGORY: Awards

CBS2/KCAL9 Investigative Reporter David Goldstein Wins Quinn Award for Lifetime Achievement
-----------------------------------------------

CBS2/KCAL9 investigative reporter David Goldstein has been named by the board of directors of the Los Angeles Press Club as the 2012 winner of the coveted Joseph M. Quinn Memorial Award for lifetime achievement.

“His reporting is synonymous with serious journalism in local TV news,” said LA Press Club President Will Lewis. “David has covered the major events that help define modern Los Angeles—from the trial of LAPD officers accused of beating Rodney King, the OJ Simpson trial and the LA riots.”

As a Quinn winner, Goldstein follows in the footsteps of Walter Cronkite (‘80), Otis Chandler (’84), Ted Koppel and Bill Stout (’87), Jack Smith (’91) and Pat Harvey (’04).

Goldstein will share the stage at the 54th LA Press Club Journalism Awards Gala June 24 with Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein of Watergate fame, along with the first place winners of the Southland’s largest media awards competition now underway.

Goldstein is the 2011 recipient of the Television Journalist of the Year award from the Los Angeles Press Club. In his more than 15 years reporting in LA, David has been nominated for more than 15 Emmy awards and has won a half dozen Golden Mike Awards.

He was a founding member of KCAL’s Primetime newscast, having joined the station in 1989.

His investigative reports have led to immediate results.

An investigation into the illegal placement of registered sex offenders prompted the resignation of the head of the State Department of Corrections and the implementation of a statewide task force to overhaul the system.

A report on the potential of sex offenders being hired to play Santa during the Christmas season prompted a new bill in the state legislature.

A report on the California Department of Corrections selling used assault rifles and the CHP selling confiscated weapons led to a statewide ban on future sales.

And David’s undercover investigation of a doctor who illegally prescribed pain medication led to the arrest of the physician and the suspension of his license.

David Goldstein grew up in the suburbs of New York City and graduated from George Washington University with a degree in Journalism and Broadcasting.  He was a reporter at WCBS-TV in New York and has also worked as an investigative reporter in Miami.

In his spare time he likes to jog and play tennis.