URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/watergate-press-politics-presidency2464/
DATE: April 22, 2012
TAGS: Alone in the Whitehouse, AP, Awards, Frank Stoltze, John Dean, KPCC, President Nixon, Richard Reeves, The Crawford Family Forum, Watergate, Woodward and Bernstein
CATEGORY: Events

WATERGATE: The Press, Politics and the Presidency
-----------------------------------------------

KPCC Frank Stoltze, John Dean, Richard Reeves--photo by KPCC

John Dean, President Nixon’s former special council, promised new revelations on the Watergate cover-up in his new book that will be published in August. “What did the president know and when did he know it.”

Dean told a capacity crowd at a KPCC/LA Press Club panel on Watergate Wednesday(16) that his book Is based on hours of listening and reading transcripts of unpublished Nixon White House tapes archived at the Nixon Library in Yorba Linda. Raw audio: http://bit.ly/KjDoyQ

Panel, moderated by KPCC’s Frank Stoltze, featured:

Richard Reeves, senior lecturer at the Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism at the University of Southern California, former chief political correspondent for The New York Times and editor and columnist for New York Magazine and Esquire.

Michael Oreskes, senior managing editor for U.S. News at the Associated Press. He was very involved with the AP’s probe into the New York Police Department’s intelligence operations in the Muslim community which won the Pulitzer Prize in April. He joined the group by phone.

Special event produced by KPCC’s Crawford Family Forum in partnership with the Los Angeles Press Club

Wednesday, May 16, 2012
7 p.m. – 8:30 p.m.

The Crawford Family Forum
474 South Raymond Avenue
Pasadena, CA 91105
Get directions

RSVP for this event

The Watergate break-in, White House cover-up, Deep Throat’s leaks to Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein, the two cub reporters at The Washington Post who broke the story… it’s the stuff of legend and arguably marked a sea-change in investigative journalism. John Dean, White House counsel to President Nixon, was there through it all, and is here to tell us why forty years ago this political scandal changed the way we cover politics and the presidency forever. He joins KPCC’s Frank Stoltze and veteran newsman Richard Reeves on Wednesday, May 16 at KPCC’s Crawford Family Forum. Stoltze is two-time winner of the LA Press Club’s Radio Journalist of the Year.



Panel:

John W. Dean, former White House legal counsel to President Nixon; served as chief minority counsel for the House Judiciary Committee and associate deputy attorney general in the U.S. Department of Justice; author of Blind Ambition and Worse Than Watergate.

Richard Reeves, senior lecturer at the Annenberg School for Communication & Journalism at the University of Southern California, former chief political correspondent for The New York Times and editor and columnist for New York Magazine and Esquire.

This program is in partnership with the Los Angeles Press Club, which is presenting their 2012 President’s Award to Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein Sunday, June 24.

6:30pm – Doors Open
7:00pm – Program

Admission is FREE, but RSVPs are required.

Sponsor: Los Angeles Press Club

Type: Community Engagement

Get Directions to 474 South Raymond Avenue 

The Crawford Family Forum
474 South Raymond Avenue
Pasadena, CA 91105