URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/gala-biltmore-june-24-pearl-family/
DATE: May 19, 2012
TAGS: Awards, Daniel Pearl, David Goldstein, SoCal Connected, SoCal journo awards, social networks, Woodward and Bernstein
CATEGORY: Awards, Uncategorized

54th SoCal Journalism Awards: Gala at Biltmore to honor Woodward & Bernstein, David Goldstein, Pearl Family
-----------------------------------------------

RESERVATIONS FOR TICKETS, TABLES, SPONSORSHIP & TRIBUTE BOOK ADS NOW AVAILABLE

Tickets - Rate Card-  Silent Auction Donation Form - AD Specs - 54th invite


54th Annual LA Press Club Awards to name finalists for best work in 2011 by journalists filing on all media platforms.

Woodward & Bernstein applauded at Wash. Post Watergate event 6/11 in DC

The commemoration of the 40th anniversary of the biggest political scandal in American history moves from Washington, D.C. to Los Angeles on Sunday, June 24.

Direct from the Washington Post reunion at the Watergate apartments, Bob Woodward and
Carl Bernstein will receive the Los Angeles Press Club President’s Award for Impact on the Media at the 54th Southern California Journalism Awards Gala at the historic Biltmore Hotel.

“These two young, city-side reporters,” said Will Lewis, press club president, “not only fearlessly followed the conspiracy to the White House, but they put their stamp on modern investigative reporting.”

The award will be presented by the actor who played a president for seven years on West Wing and the most popular actress on television.

Martin Sheen and Pauley Perrette, who stars on NCI, head a roster of celebrity and media presenters who include Ron Perlman, Dan Lauria, Patt Harvey, Jodi Long, Patt Morrison, Robert Kovacik and Jodi Long. Returning as emcee for a third straight year is Jack Maxwell.

They will help handout first place trophies for the best reporting and photography across all media platforms in 2011.

Winners will have been chosen by press clubs across the nation from a record 750 entries in one of the oldest and largest journalism competitions, not just in Southern California, but the nation as well.

David Goldstein, investigative reporter for CBS2/KCAL9, will accept the Quinn Award for Lifetime Achievement. Public Service Award goes to the KCET SoCal Connected team of investigative journalists for their expose of lavish spending at HACLA, the agency in charge of housing for L.A.’s poor. 

Accepting the 10th anniversary presentation of the Daniel Pearl Award for Courage will be the Pearl Family for their work in bringing middle east and other journalists to the U.S.to work and study.   The award is named for the Wall Street Journal reporter who was brutally murdered by terrorists after 9/11.

Major sponsors of the Awards Gala are Wells Fargo and Southern California Public Radio, KPCC.

The Los Angeles Press Club, the largest and oldest journalistic organization in the Southland, traces its beginnings to the early years of the 20th century. Its membership is open to reporters, editors, bloggers and photographers who file on all media platforms.

Its primary mission is to encourage and reward serious journalism in Southern California.

-30-