URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/lecture-avoiding-libelslander-for-journos/
DATE: August 24, 2012
TAGS: libel, Loyola Law School, slander
CATEGORY: Events

Lecture: Avoiding Libel/Slander for Journos
-----------------------------------------------

Los Angeles Press Club and Loyola Law School co-host session at the Downtown Campus, Thurs., Sept. 6 at 6 pm RSVP

Los Angeles – Associate Professor Aaron Caplan, a former staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union who teaches Constitutional Law and the First Amendment Seminar at Loyola Law School, Los Angeles, will lecture on libel and slander (and how to avoid it) during a session to be held at Loyola’s downtown L.A. campus at 6 p.m. on Thursday, Sept. 6.

The event, hosted in conjunction with the L.A. Press Club, will begin will begin with refreshments. Caplan will then deliver an expansive primer on libel and slander, fielding questions at the end. The event will run until about 8:45 p.m. All journalists are invited to attend this free event. Registration is now open at http://media.lls.edu/libelslander2012.html.

The event will be held in the Burns Lounge in the Fritz B. Burns Academic Center on Loyola Law School’s campus at 919 Albany St. (at Olympic two blocks west of the 110 Freeway), Los Angeles, CA 90015. The event will start with refreshments at 6 p.m., followed at 6:30 p.m. by the libel/slander session with Associate Professor Aaron Caplan. For more information, contact Brian Costello, deputy director of communications, at 213-736-1444 or brian.costello@lls.edu.

About Associate Professor Aaron Caplan

Aaron Caplan teaches Constitutional Law, First Amendment Seminar, Civil Procedure and other courses at Loyola Law School, Los Angeles. Caplan received a J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Michigan Law School and a B.A., summa cum laude, from the University of Pennsylvania. He was previously a staff attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union of Washington, an adjunct professor at Seattle University School of Law, a litigation associate with Perkins Coie and a clerk to the Hon. Betty Binns Fletcher of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.

Caplan was part of the legal team that successfully represented Air Force Maj. Margaret Witt, a decorated nurse dismissed as a result of the military’s Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy, before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In its ruling in Witt v. Air Force, the Ninth Circuit held that substantive due process requires that government action penalizing a person for sexual orientation must survive intermediate scrutiny. He has appeared as counsel for parties and for amicus in the U.S. Supreme Court, the U.S. Court of Appeals, the U.S. District Court and the Washington Supreme Court and Washington Court of Appeals.

About Loyola Law School, Los Angeles

Located in downtown Los Angeles — a legal, financial and media capital — Loyola Law School is home to prominent faculty, dedicated students and cutting-edge programs. Committed to legal ethics and the public interest, it has produced top attorneys for more than 90 years. The Princeton Review ranked Loyola ninth for “Best Classroom Experience.” Loyola was ranked 29th on the 2010 Super Lawyers U.S. Law School Rankings. National Jurist magazine ranks it eighth on its list of “Best Law Schools for Public Interest Law.” It was ranked seventh in the nation for trial advocacy, 10th for tax law and 21st for legal writing by U.S. News & World Report. For more information, please see www.lls.edu.

About the Los Angeles Press Club

The Los Angeles Press Club is the oldest and largest Southland organization that speaks for journalists across all media platforms. It traces its beginnings back to as early as 1913 and is preparing to celebrate its Centennial + Year in 2013. LAPC encourages serious journalism Southern California through frequent events and workshops and its 55-year-old Southern California Journalism Awards. This year it honored Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein on the 40th anniversary of Watergate. The L.A. Press Club speaks out on First Amendment issues and seeks rigorous enforcement of California’s sunshine and public records laws.

###