URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/reporting-from-dangerous-places/
DATE: September 19, 2012
TAGS: Events, KPFK, L.A. Times, Steve Allen Theater L.A. Press Club, war reporting, World Affairs Council
CATEGORY: Events, Uncategorized

Reporting from the Danger Zone
-----------------------------------------------

Each year, dozens of journalists are killed while reporting from the danger zones, sometimes targeted to prevent the flow of important information from reaching the international community. Yet these brave men and women return to these hot spots, sometimes risking their lives to witness some of the darkest elements of the world and report back to their communities. Please join the Los Angeles Press Club and KPFK’s The Scholars’ Circle for a live discussion and broadcast taping.

What: Live discussion and broadcast on reporting from the danger zone with journalists and scholars who have taken great risks from some of the world’s most dangerous places to bring us the news.

When: Thursday, September 27, 7 PM

Where: The Los Angeles Press Club, Steve Allen Theater, 4773 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood, CA  90027

Who: 

Terry McCarthy, Emmy Award and Edward R. Murrow Award-winning journalist, former ABC news and CBS News foreign correspondent, former Los Angeles bureau chief for Time Magazine. Currently President and CEO of the World Affairs Council.

Carol Williams, Senior International Affairs Writer, Los Angeles Times. Williams covered the Balkan wars, the Chechen wars, Afghanistan, including during the Soviet occupation in the 1980s, Iraq and the 2004 rebellion in Haiti.

 Claudia Nunez, John S. Knight Journalism Fellow and Award Winning La Opinion Reporter, documenting human rights violations along the Mexican border.

Mark LeVine, Professor, UC Irvine, columnist, Al Jazeera, Author of Overthrowing Geography: Jaffa, Tel Aviv and the Struggle for Palestine, Why They Don’t Hate Us: Lifting the Veil on the Axis of Evil, An Impossible Peace: Oslo and the Burdens of History and Heavy Metal Islam: Rock, Resistance and the Struggle for the Soul of Islam

Moderator: Maria Armoudian, is the host of The Scholars’ Circle & the Insighters, heard on KPFK and ten other stations in the US, the author of Kill the Messenger: The Media’s Role in the Fate of the World and a fellow at USC.

Please RSVP at www.lapressclub.org.

Contact Maria Armoudian for more information. Armoudian@aol.com