URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/page-views-vs-good-journalism/
DATE: October 16, 2012
TAGS: clicks, Events, Jill Stewart, LA Weekly
CATEGORY: Events

Page Views vs. Good Journalism
-----------------------------------------------

“Are Page Views Killing Good Journalism Click by Click?” moderated by LA Weekly Managing Editor Jill Stewart, at the Los Angeles Press Club on Thursday, October 25, at 7:30 pm. Please come for wine and appetizers at 6:30 pm and mingle with others in the increasingly fascinating media industry.
More & R.S.V.P. 

Is the intense pressure on reporters, producers and editors to increase page views and clicks turning journalism into a swamp of pointless news bites and Google-quickies? Or is the news getting smarter, sassier and more comprehensive?

Four of California’s top journalists will discuss “Are ‘Page Views’ Killing Good Journalism Click by Click?” moderated by LA Weekly Managing Editor Jill Stewart, at the Los Angeles Press Club on Thursday, October 25, at 7:30 pm. Please come for wine and appetizers at 6:30 pm and mingle with others in the increasingly fascinating media industry.

The Four Panelists:

Shelby Grad is City Editor of the Los Angeles Times, where since 2004 he has seen incredible news controversies, media gotcha moments and stunning news revelations unfold. Shelby has an insider grasp of the struggle between news gatherers and news sources, and the pressure to publish and draw traffic. Previously, Shelby was a newsroom editor both downtown and in theTimes Orange County edition. From 1992-1999 he covered urban affairs, government and transportation for the Times in Orange County. He is a Los Angeles native (Fairfax District) and lives in Long Beach.

Richard Rushfield co-writes Vanity Fair’s “The Intelligence Report,” an infotainment feature, and is former entertainment editor of the latimes.com and editor of Gawker on the West Coast —work that has placed Richard squarely in the fight for page views and clicks on the internet. A former political field organizer for Bill Clinton and others, Richard also knows what the “other side” — the powerful folks the media covers —  is thinking. Considered a brilliant observer of politics and culture, Richard is a novelist and co-founder of LA Innuendo, a quarterly satire on Los Angeles culture.

Andrew Wallenstein is TV Editor at Variety, where he covers the TV and digital media businesses out of L.A. Andrew has seen the inside of Hollywood, for good and bad, and taken on the challenges of making key decisions about what’s news and what’s not. Andrew is the former co-host of the TV Guide Channel primetime series “Square Off,” and a frequent commentator on media issues for National Public Radio. His work has also appeared in The New York Times, The Hollywood Reporter and Business Week.

Tracy Wood is one of California’s most decorated investigative journalists, making a dramatic and successful jump from print to all-digital as senior writer at Voice of OC, the cutting-edge, non-profit investigative reporting agency. As a foreign correspondent for UPI during the Vietnam War, Tracy was a rare female covering combat. Then, for 17 years, Tracy investigated corruption for the Los Angeles Times and won untold awards. She was later wooed by the Orange County Register, where, as investigations editor, she oversaw its stunning coverage of former O.C. Sheriff Mike Corona.

Please join us for a fascinating, casual discussion followed by a lively audience Q  & A. Meet amazing media people and mingle!

WHAT: “Is Page View Killing Good Journalism Click by Click,” panel moderated by Jill Stewart.
WHEN: Thursday, October 25 at 7:30 pm. Complimentary wine, beer and appetizers at 6:30 pm.
WHERE: Los Angeles Press Club, 4773 Hollywood Blvd. 323.669.8081
INFO: Free to Press Club members, $15.00 at the door for non-members, or $10.00 for non-members online, by clicking here.

Or get 2 free Tickets by joining the Press Club this month