URL: http://lapressclub.org/uncategorized/jane-fonda-to-be-honored-by-los-angeles-press-club/
DATE: October 18, 2012
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Uncategorized

Jane Fonda to be Honored by Los Angeles Press Club --  A Special Introduction by Robert Redford
-----------------------------------------------

Janice Min introduced by Kathy Griffin.

Los Angeles Press Club will honor Jane Fonda with its inaugural Visionary Award at the National Entertainment.
Journalism Awards Gala on Sunday, November 18th at the Biltmore Hotel, downtown Los Angeles.

The Visionary Award is being instituted to pay homage to “an individual within the Entertainment Industry who uses their high-profile status to make the world a better place and to spread information about issues of freedom and social importance.”

Beside her successful careers as a two-time Academy Award winning actress, star of a Broadway smash hit, fitness guru and best-selling author, Ms. Fonda has worked tirelessly, and not always without controversy, for people less fortunate than herself. “The Los Angeles Press Club can think of no one who better personifies the Visionary spirit or who is more deserving of being honored than Jane Fonda. Her empathy has shown the world that both celebrity and artistic talent can be used to improve the lives of others,” said Diana Ljungaeus, Executive Director of the Press Club.

Rate Card - Tickets & Tables - Sponsorship- Invite - AD Specs

The mission of the Jane Fonda Center is to advance scientific knowledge about adolescence with an emphasis on reproductive health. It seeks to disseminate information and strategies for risk reduction and healthy transitions to adulthood.

Her other endeavors include the Women’s Media Center which is dedicated to amplifying Women’s Voices and V-Day the global activist movement to end violence against women and girls.

Jane Fonda, who is plays Nancy Reagan in the new Lee Daniels film, The Butler as well as currently starring in HBO’s acclaimed Aaron Sorkin series, The Newsroom, will sit down with Press Club board member and NBC-LA anchorman Robert Kovacik for a candid on-stage interview.

“Jane Fonda sets the bar for the Visionary Award where it belongs—at the highest possible level,” said press club president Will Lewis.

Janice Min, Executive Editor at The Hollywood Reporter, will also be celebrated this evening, with The NEJ Luminary Award, the club’s career achievement award, introduced by Kathy Griffin.

To buy tickets or tables, to sponsor the awards, place an ad in the program book or to contribute to our silent auction contact Diana@LApressclub.org

The Los Angeles Press Club stands as an organization devoted to improving the spirit of journalism and journalists, raising the industry’s standards, strengthening its integrity and improving its reputation all for the benefit of the community at large. Serving the Southland since 1913, it is the only Southern California journalism group that speaks for all journalists working for daily and weekly newspapers, radio & TV, magazines, documentary films and online. For more information, go to http://lapressclub.org.