URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/l-a-press-clubs-lifetime-achievement-award-to-nbc4-sportscaster-fred-roggin/
DATE: May 24, 2013
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Awards

Quinn Award to Fred Roggin, NBC4
-----------------------------------------------

HOLLYWOOD, May 22, 2013: The Los Angeles Press Club proudly announces NBC4’s Fred Roggin will receive this year’s Joseph M. Quinn Award for Lifetime Achievement. The honor will be bestowed at the LAPC’s Centennial Awards Gala on Sunday, June 23rd at the Biltmore Hotel’s historic Crystal Ballroom, Downtown, Los Angeles.

Fred Roggin is the weekday sports anchor at NBC4 Southern California, joining the station in 1980. He is the  host of ‘Going Roggin,’ a new 30 minute sports commentary program that airs Sundays at 12 midnight and the creator and host of ‘The Challenge,’ NBC4′s multi-platform half-hour post-game show, which airs following ’Sunday Night Football.’ Roggin has covered the Olympic Games since 1984.

“Sports journalism is too often overlooked when it comes to prestigious lifetime awards. Los Angeles Press Club has not been an exception. That is why we are extra proud to present the Joseph M. Quinn Award to Fred Roggin, a guiding light in Southern Californa sports journalism for more than 30 years,” says press club executive director Diana Ljungaeus.

As the leading sports anchor in Southern California, Roggin has earned 30 local Emmy Awards, 22 Golden Mike Awards, three prestigious Associated Press Awards and numerous Press Club Awards for his sports segments, specials and series. Roggin expanded his role at the station in 1985 when he created and became host and executive producer of ‘Sunday Night Sports.’

“The best award that exists is the one given by one’s own colleagues and I am truly humbled to be recognized for the work I enjoy so much,” said Fred Roggin. “I know very few people who are still excited, 30 years down the line, to get out of bed to go to work and to receive an award for something I love doing is a true gift for which I am grateful.”

Well-known for his use of humor and satire, Roggin created segments such as the ‘Hall of Shame,’ which features video clips of humorous sports moments, and ‘Roggin’s Heroes,’ which highlights remarkable or extraordinary plays occurring in the world of sports.  ’Roggin’s Heroes’ was developed into a nationally syndicated, weekly show in 1990.

Originally from Detroit, Roggin was raised in Phoenix, where he attended Phoenix College in Broadcasting. Roggin is married, has five children and lives with his family in the San Fernando Valley.

The Joseph M. Quinn Memorial Award for journalistic achievement and distinction is the highest honor bestowed by the Los Angeles Press Club. Winners join a select group of distinguished journalists, including Walter Croncite, Tom Brokaw, Ted Koppel, Judy Woodruff and Pat Harvey.

More about Joseph Quinn and the award – http://lapressclub.org/awards/scja/quinn-award-winners/