URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/2013-nej-contest-about-to-open/
DATE: August 15, 2013
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Awards

The 6th Annual National Entertainment Journalism Awards -- November 24, 2013
-----------------------------------------------

Call For Entries - Entry Form Writable PDF - Pay Online -
Donation Form - Buy Tickets / Advertise


HOLLYWOOD, CA. Entertainment journalists working in print, online, radio, television and photo journalism in the United States are invited to submit their best works of 2012-13 for the Los Angeles Press Club’s sixth annual National Entertainment Journalism Awards.

To celebrate the Club’s 100-year history we have created a Special Centennial Awards category in which journalists are invited to submit their “best career work” regardless of year of publication or broadcast, in any of four areas: celebrity photo, celebrity interview, entertainment investigation and entertainment feature.

The other usual annual entertainment journalism competition categories will also be offered, including entertainment documentary and entertainment non-fiction book.

Join the keen competition and the fun! The Los Angeles Press Club expects a lively competition. The winners will be announced at the elegant and historic Millennium Biltmore Hotel in downtown Los Angeles on November 24, the Sunday before Thanksgiving.

We are accepting entries until October 15, 2013.



Since its inception, the National Entertainment Journalism Awards competition has dramatically grown in stature and number of entries.

The L.A. Press Club, headquartered in the heart of the world’s entertainment capital, seeks the finest work by entertainment reporters and editors, as well as theater, film and television critics. Entries from international journalists working in another language but based in the U.S. are eligible. Any entries in a language other than English or Spanish must be accompanied by a translation.

“Journalists have worked hard all year to bring us tough, smart, wonderful stories that open our eyes to the world of entertainment,” said Los Angeles Press Club President Jill Stewart, managing editor of LA Weekly. “We think it’s critical to recognize their efforts as they find new and invigorating ways to thrive and survive.”

For that reason, the Club last year instituted the Visionary Award at the NEJ gala to honor high-profile entertainment personalities who use their status to help others. Our first recipient last year was Jane Fonda, who was introduced by Robert Redford.

Each year, the NEJ also honors one special journalist for career achievement. Our stellar past recipients have included The Hollywood Reporter‘s Janice Min, The Wall Street Journal‘s Joe Morgenstern and Playboy‘s Hugh Hefner.

The Los Angeles Press Club is dedicated to fostering quality journalism. It also produces the Southern California Journalism Awards each June. Honorees have included Arianna Huffington, Walter Cronkite, Anderson Cooper, Leslie Stahl, Judy Woodruff, Bob Woodward and Tom Brokaw.  The Press Club is the only Southern California organization that speaks for all journalists-newspaper, magazine, radio, TV, photography, online and social media.

The Los Angeles Press Club stands as an organization devoted to improving the spirit of journalism and journalists, raising the industry’s standards, strengthening its integrity and improving its reputation all for the benefit of the community at large. Serving the Southland since 1913, it is the only Southern California journalism group that speaks for all journalists working for daily and weekly newspapers, radio & TV, magazines, documentary films and online. www.LAPressClub.org