URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/events/annual-meeting-thursday-october-24-followed-by-a-book-party-for-timothy-spangler/
DATE: September 17, 2013
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Events

Annual Meeting Thursday, October 24, Followed by a Book Party for Timothy Spangler
-----------------------------------------------

The Los Angeles Press Club is fielding candidates for the 2014 Board of Directors. For print, broadcast and Internet journalists, this is an opportunity to serve in a non-profit organization.

This year represents a unique opportunity for a new generation of board members to help shape the future direction of the Press Club with for fresh ideas.

Board members serve two-year terms. Among the duties are to oversee the policies, finances, events and other activities of the Press Club, attend regular monthly board meetings, promote the organization to new members and volunteer for service at seminars and other community endeavors.

Qualifications: Directors must be a member in good standing of the Press Club for at least 12 months. In certain cases, waivers are granted for this provision at the discretion of the current Board of Directors.

Those interested in service should contact Diana Ljungaeus, executive director, atdiana@lapressclub.org, or (323)669-8081.

The kickoff to this year’s elections will be at the annual meeting of the Los Angeles Press Club on October 24 at 7 p.m.. Candidates will be asked to give short statements and biographies to the general membership. Voting will take place in October and November, and ballots will be counted on the third Thursday of November. The 2014 board will be seated at the Press Club Board of Directors meeting in January.

The meeting is free and open to all members. If you are not a member you can join on the spot or click this link to sign up: https://shop.lapressclub.info.

Followed by book party with Timothy Spangler.

About the Book:



ONE STEP AHEAD
As the recession stutters onwards systemic and structural causes for the financial crash continue to dominate international news and debate. Never has there been such an appetite and desire to understand the financial institutions that govern us. But despite public interest, alternative investment vehicles such as private equity and hedge funds remain elusive. Both have always had a unique position in the market, designed as they are to function outside of the rules that govern other financial organizations. But what is it that they do and – significantly – how is it that they have prospered since the 2008 meltdown despite the introduction of new regulatory regimes?

In this accessible and timely study, award-winning writer Timothy Spangler explores how the structures of alternative investment funds enable them to adapt and react to global financial conditions. From small start-ups to the titans of the industry, One Step Ahead is the essential guide to understanding how private equity and hedge funds operate, drive economic growth, and have become essential vehicles for investment for both public and private sectors the world over.

About the Author:

Timothy Spangler is a writer and commentator who divides his time between Southern California and the United Kingdom. He is writes the award-winning “Law of the Market” blog for Forbes.com, dedicated to covering the politics of Wall Street regulation and the regulation of Wall Street politics. He has appeared on CNN, BBC and Sky News, and has been featured in The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Financial Times, and The Economist.

Reviews:

“A brief, readable explanation of how private equity and hedge funds operate and what purpose they serve in the economy… This is a book for people looking for deep understanding and careful analysis, rather than empty sloganeering — and yet it will be immediately accessible to the average reader, which is a remarkable accomplishment.”
Robert VerBruggen, National Review

“Finally a book that sheds a knowledgeable light on the private equity and hedge fund worlds. Long demonized by the media, Spangler has humanized these often secretive industry sectors all the while revealing just how essential they are.”
John Tamny, Forbes Opinions and RealClearMarkets.com

“Spangler, who understands the nuts and bolts of hedge funds and private equity in the US and European contexts, gives the general public knowledge, which is power, to grasp their role in our economic future.”
Noreen Clancy, RAND Corporation

“Like a series of exceptional New Yorker articles, ONE STEP AHEAD provides a detailed and engaging insider’s view of the seemingly-secret world of alternatives from every perspective”
Karyn Polak, PNC Financial Services

Refreshments will be served.