URL: http://lapressclub.org/awards/bloomberg-winkler-to-be-honored-with-la-press-clubs-presidents-award/
DATE: May 2, 2014
TAGS: 
CATEGORY: Awards

Bloomberg & Winkler to be Honored with LA Press Clubs Presidents Award
-----------------------------------------------

Michael R. Bloomberg and Bloomberg News Editor in Chief Matthew Winkler will accept the 2014 Los Angeles Press Club’s President’s Award.



Bloomberg and Winkler co-founded Bloomberg News in 1990 to deliver financial news to Bloomberg terminal subscribers. The staff originally consisted of six people and has since grown into a global news organization with more than 2,400 journalists in more than 150 bureaus in 73 countries.

Winkler continues to be the Editor in Chief of Bloomberg News, part of Bloomberg L.P., the company founded by Michael R. Bloomberg in 1981.

Bloomberg News is the backbone of the company’s media properties, including Bloomberg Businessweek, Bloomberg TV, Bloomberg Radio, Bloomberg Markets magazine and the recently-launched luxury lifestyle magazine Pursuits.

“Building a news organization of this magnitude is nothing less than remarkable in a time when other organizations are being decimated,” said LA Press Club President Robert Kovacik of NBC LA. “The President’s Award goes to two individuals who have had an impressive impact on media. No one deserves this award more than Michael Bloomberg and Matthew Winkler.”

The Awards Gala will be held on Sunday, June 29, in the Chrystal Ballroom at the Millennium Biltmore Hotel, downtown Los Angeles. It is a classy, upscale affair with the direct involvement and participation of some 500 influential journalists and media executives. These individuals represent companies such as Los Angeles Times, LA Weekly, NBC4, KPCC, KNX, Wall Street Journal, Bloomberg News, The Hollywood Reporter, People Magazine, Variety, Fox, and many other prominent organizations.

The Daniel Pearl Award for Courage and Integrity in Journalism and The Quinn Award for Lifetime Achievement as well as the LAPC Public Service Award will also be bestowed that evening. I addition, some of Southern California’s most notable reporters, editors, anchors, and bloggers will also claim their winning plaques for best work of 2013.

In recent years we have honored heavyweights such as Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein on the 40th anniversary of breaking the Watergate Scandal, Lesley Stahl, Anderson Cooper, Richard Engel, Bob Woodruff and Steve Lopez, to mention a few. Presenters have included a slew of TV and film personalities such as Sean Penn, Martin Sheen, Bill Maher, Ron Perlman, Ed Asner, Charles Shaughnessy, Wendie Malick, Dan Lauria, Robert Forster, Arnold Schwarzenegger and Dick Gregory.

Proceeds from the Gala is the largest source of income for the Los Angeles Press Club; a 501(c) 3 that speaks for journalists across all
media platforms.

There is still time to enter this year’s contest. Deadline is set to March 27, 2014.

To sponsor the event, advertise, buy tickets or donate to our silent auction contact executive director Diana Ljungaeus at 323.669.8081 or email her at Diana-AT-LApressclub.org.